# eBird-R-Tutorial
Advanced Data Analysis @ Bucknell - Project 1

In order to access this tutorial, you will need to download a couple of documents. To do this, click the green "Clone or Download Button" on the repo's main page. Then, click "download ZIP". This folder should now be in yor downloads folder, unzipped, and then moved to a location such as your desktop.

Open this folder and then find the "eBird_R_tutorial.Rmd" file. This is the R markdown file which is the tutorial you will be following to complete your assignment. This file contains a general introduction to R Studio that explains the layout and structure needed to work through the file. It also contains a guided tutorial that will help students navigate R to succesffuly interpret a birding data set. Once your R markdown file is open, you will need a place to store your data sets, as well as the code that you will be working with. This will become your "working directory".

To create a working directory, you need to create a folder in a location on this computer that you will be able to access. We recommend creating the folder in your Documents file. After you have done this, go to the R Studio menu at the top of your computer where it has drop downs for "File", "Edit", etc. Open up the "Sessions" drop down, which is located in the middle. Then, click "Set Working Directory" and select "Choose Directory". Within the file explorer that will appear, find where you stored the new folder you created for this project. Select the folder and click "Ok" to set it as your working directory. You will want to move the folder you cloned from github to your newly established working directory so that you can readily access the files you will need.

Through step by step instructions, you should attack this document by working through one code chunk at a time. This will make sure that you understand how R works and that you fully understand what exactly you are doing. Even in large chunks of code, you should still run each line separately to determine the direct output. To run one line of code at a time, highlight the line and then hit command + enter. If at any point you get stuck during this tutorial, do not hesitate to use your friend Google! The internet is a great resource for learning R and finding code that has worked for other people doing similar anlyses to you. For the most part, everything that you want to do in R has already been done and can be easily accessed online.